Maven build lifecycle
Maven has 3 build in build lifecycle : Clean, Default and Site lifecycle

## Clean
Clean : deletes any build output generated by previous build

## Default lifecycle 
- Validate: validate the project structure and verify if all necessary information is available 
- compile: compile the project’s source code
- test: run unit test against compiled source code
- Package: package the compiled file into distribute format e.g ( JAR, WAR)
- Install: install the package into loca (.m2)l repository for use as a dependency in other project.
- Deploy: deploys a package to remote repository for sharing with other developer or environment. This remote repo like nexus to store the artifact

## Site lifecycle
- site: generate project documentation and report
- site-deploy: deploy the generate documentation to remote web-server.

## Maven commands

## Clean
```sh
 mvn clean
```
Deletes the target directory and any previous build outputs.


## Default
```sh
mvn validate
```
Validates the project structure and necessary information.


```sh
mvn compile
```
Compiles the project's source code.


```sh
mvn test
```
Runs unit tests using the compiled source code.


```sh
mvn package
```
Takes the compiled code and packages it into a distributable format (e.g., JAR, WAR).

```sh
mvn install
```
Puts the packaged artifact into the local Maven repository (~/.m2)


```sh
mvn deploy
```
Copies the final package to a remote repository (like Nexus or Artifactory).

## Site lifecycle
```sh
mvn site
```
Generates the project documentation and reports.


```sh
mvn site-deploy
```
Publishes the generated documentation to a configured remote web server.